Purpose: This course focuses on problems where engineering design 
intersects with the life sciences.  This, in a general sense, is 
how we define bioengineering.  In this reflection project, you 
will be asked to dig a little deeper into the specifics of a 
bioengineering system or design that relates to your chosen field 
of study or personal interests.
Assignment:  Your task is to communicate to fellow engineers 
the important aspects of a bioengineering design or system.  
You may choose any media format you wish as long as it is web-based
(for easy and maximal access).  

Choose a system or design that involves some aspects of 
bioengineering.  Try to identify something that interests 
you personally or professionally.  Avoid specific designs/systems 
discussed previously in the course unless you have a new and 
different perspective to add.
Do some research on your chosen topic to identify:
A problem to be solved and why this is interesting to you;
The biological aspects of the system that relate to the problem;
The design choices involved in solving the problem.
The ecological and/or societal impacts of the system or design;
Produce a a presentation to communicate your findings in an 
interesting and engaging manner.  Aim for your audience to 
spend four to six minutes with your presentation.  Some ideas:

Written - write a report, a newspaper article, a short story, 
a blog post, the script for a short play, series of tweets 
with a hashtag, etc
Visual - prepare a poster, a cartoon, a video, or a 
slideshow/presentation
Audio - record a podcast, write a song, produce an interview 
Activity - develop a game or a series of web pages that tell 
your story
These are just a few suggestions. There are lots of other options; 
the choice is yours.
Tools for reflection assignment - a partial list of some 
presentation tools that you may want to use for this reflection 
assignment.


Grading Criteria

Content (13 points) - 
Provides appropriate information:
   A problem to be solved (including your personal interest in 
   this problem);
   The biological aspects of the system that relate to the 
   problem;
   The design choices involved in solving the problem.
   The ecological and/or societal impacts of the system or design;
Creativity (3 points) - 
   Does the work show that you put some thought and effort 
   into  the assignment?
Peer evaluation (4 points) - You will be expected to provide 
   feedback to your peers based on these same criteria.
